For your first boot of this program, you must setup the database so that it fills with the default values and host the local web server.

Before running any commands you must have:
1. PostgresSQL installed with the path added to environment variables
2. php installed with the path added to environment variables
3. Git Bash installed to run commands (required to run the .sh file)
4. The name of your postgres user (by default usually "postgres")
5. The password to your postgres user (For security prompts)
6. A working browser to open the local host website


1. Open Git Bash and navigate to the folder that holds the entire project
    a. Ex: C:\Users\akash\DOCS\CSI 2132 Deliverable 2\eHotelProject is my personal project folder path
    b. Git Bash by default is in your user directory on your computer (In my case C:/Users/akash)


2. Use the cd command to navigate into the project folder
    a. You can go 1 by 1 into each folder until you reach the right folder
    b. alternatively, you can convert your file path into forward slashes and use cd folder_path
    c. Ex. cd DOCS/"CSI 2132 Deliverable 2"/eHotelProject for my computer
    d. Surround any folder names that contain spaces in " " to navigate into them

3. In Git Bash, once you've reached the project folder, run the following:
    a. createdb -U postgres hotelproj
    b. be sure to replace "postgres" with the name of your postgres user.
    c. Based on your security permissions, PostgresSQL will prompt you to enter your password
    d. Type the password and press enter (the password is hidden so it tracks your keystrokes)

4. Now in the same folder run the following:
    a. PGUSER=postgres ./sql/run_all.sh hotelproj
    b. be sure to replace "postgres" with the name of your postgres user.
    c. Based on your security permissions, PostgresSQL will prompt you to enter your password
    d. Type the password and press enter (the password is hidden so it tracks your keystrokes)
    e. You will be prompted to enter your password about 6 times
    f. If everything is working, it should display a bunch of lines showing the tables' creation and data instantiation

5. At this point, the database has been created locally and is ready to run on the local host

6. While on Git Bash in the project folder, run the following command to navigate into the web folder:
    a. cd web

7. Now that you've navigated to the web folder, run the following to host the website:
    a. export HOTEL_DB_PASS=postgres
    b. replace "postgres" with your postgres user password
    c. php -S 127.0.0.1:8080

8. If everything has run properly you should get a message like this:
    a. [Tue Apr  7 20:34:16 2026] PHP 8.2.12 Development Server (http://127.0.0.1:8080) started

9. Open your web browser and go to http://127.0.0.1:8080 or whatever local host you decided
    a. You should now be able to run the website and act as an employee or customer