Five of the most well-known hotel chains, with hotels in more than 14 different locations in North
America, have decided to collaborate and develop an application that will allow their customers to
easily book rooms in their hotels, seeing room availability in real time. You are requested to develop
the database and the application that allows the above.
For every hotel chain we need to know the address of its central offices, the number of its hotels,
contact email addresses and phone numbers. The hotels of hotel chains are categorized (e.g. 1-star up
to 5-star). For each hotel we need to know the number of rooms, the address of the hotel and contact
email and phone numbers for this hotel. For the rooms in a hotel, we need to know their price, all
amenities (e.g. TV, air condition, fridge etc), the capacity of the room (e.g. single, double etc), if they
have sea view or mountain view, if they can be extended (e.g. adding one more bed) and if there are
any problems/damages in the room. For customers we need to store their full name, address and a type
of ID, e.g. SSN/SIN/driving licence, and the date of their registration into our system. For employees
of the hotels, we need to store their full name, address and SSN/SIN. The employees may have
various roles/positions in a hotel. Every hotel needs to have a manager. 
The customers can search for room availability and book rooms through the online application for
specific dates. When they check-in the hotel, their room booking is transformed to room renting and
they can also pay for this renting. The employee that does the check-in for a customer is responsible
for transforming the room booking to renting. Customer may present themselves physically at a hotel
without a booking and directly ask for a room. In this case the employee at the hotel can do the renting
of the room right away without a prior booking.
We need to store in the database the history of both bookings and rentings (archives), but we do not
need to store the history of payments. Information about an old (archived) room booking/renting must
exist in the database, even if information about the room itself or the customer does not exist in the
database anymore. We should be able to delete from our database hotel chains, hotels and rooms. We
cannot have in the database information about a room without having in the database the information
about the corresponding hotel (i.e. the hotel in which the room belongs too). In the same way, we
cannot have in the database information about a hotel without having in the database the information
about the corresponding hotel chain (i.e. the hotel chain in which the hotel belongs too).
You are requested to do the following:
1a. (10%) ER diagram: Create the ER diagram that corresponds to the above description.
1b. (8%) Relational database schema: Create the relational database schema that corresponds to
your ER diagram.
1c. (7%) Integrity constraints: Define the necessary constraints that will ensure the correctness
of the database to be created according to your relational database schema. These are primary
keys, referential integrity constraints, domain and attribute constraints and user-defined
constraints. Be inventive with the definition of user-defined constraints.
2a. (10%) Database implementation: Implement the database according to your relational
database schema and the constraints that you have defined.
2b. (5%) Database population: Insert in your database data for each one of the 5 hotel chains.
Each one of them has at least 8 hotels, which belong to at least 3 categories. Two of the hotels
at least should be in the same area. Each hotel should have at least 5 rooms of different
capacity. Populate your database with enough data to be able to showcase the execution of
queries/triggers/views.
2c. (10%) Database queries: Implement at least 4 queries of your choice on your database.
Implement at least 1 query with aggregation and at least 1 with a nested query.
2d. (10%) Database modifications: Create the necessary SQL modifications (use queries and
especially triggers): Your database should allow insert, delete and update operations of data in
your database according to the referential integrity constraints, and moreover, to the
user-defined constraints, which you have defined. Implement at least 2 triggers of your choice
for this purpose.
2e. (5%) Database indexes: Implement at least 3 indexes on the relations of your database and
justify why you have chosen these indexes: explain what type of queries and data updates you
are expecting on your database and how these indexes are useful to accelerate querying of the
database.
2f. (5%) Database views: Implement 2 views (in SQL). View 1: the first view is the number of
available rooms per area. View 2: the second view is the aggregated capacity of all the rooms
of a specific hotel. You are welcome to implement more views of your choice.
2g. (30%) Web application: Design and implement an appropriate User Interface, through which
a user will be able to see the available rooms by giving different, multiple and combinations
of criteria in order to choose the room that he/she is interested in and book it or rent it. These
criteria should be: the dates (start, end) of booking or renting, the room capacity, the area, the
hotel chain, the category of the hotel, the total number of rooms in the hotel, the price of the
rooms. The user should be able to see the available choices when he/she changes the value of
any of these criteria. 
The User Interface should allow the insert/delete/update of all information related to
customers, employees, hotels and rooms.
The user can be either a customer (who will use the interface in order to search for rooms and
do bookings) or a hotel employee (who will use the interface to either turn a booking to
renting when a customer checks in the hotel, or do directly a renting when a customer presents
physically to the hotel). An employee should be able to insert a customer payment for a
renting through the interface.
The user should be able to see in the User Interface the two specific SQL Views implemented
in (2f).
The User Interface should be user friendly, meaning that the user is not required to know
SQL. All information should be presented to the user through appropriately designed forms.
You should use appropriate elements, like drop-down lists, radio buttons etc.
Note: If you decide not to implement the User Interface as described above, but you
implement directly on the DBMS the described modifications and queries, you will still
receive 40% of the grade of this requirement, i.e. 12% of the total grade of the project instead
of 30%.
For the development of your application we suggest that you use the following: PostgreSQL/MySQL
for the implementation of the database, Apache Tomcat for client-server communication, PHP or Java
for the server side of the application and HTML for the client side of the application. Nevertheless,
you are allowed to choose other technologies, too.